Statusbar;
The coordinates of the pointer is not correctly clipped to the document; 
when I move my cursor to the menu bar I often have negative coordinates.
When I move my cursor to the far right, outside of the image, I also see 
it continue to count. I find that confusing.

Zoom is in for form of n:m.  This is not really a commonly used format and
many people will have less problems interpreting a percentage format.  So 
200% or 50% instead of 2:1 or 1:2 (respectively).

The 'selection' part shows 'Selection Active' or 'No selection'.
Apart from the missing capital S, I think we can put a little more 
information in there.  What about printing the selection size in pixels?

Zoom tool;  it zooms by 2-complement changes. So 1, 2, 4, 8 etc.
This misses other well known nice looking zoom-levels. Like 33% Or, as 
krita displays it, 3-times zoom.
I suggest making the zoom use 1, 2, 3, 4, 6, 8, 9 etc.
Also; please unzoom the image to fit on screen at initial loading.

Crop tool;
The crop tool should have statusbar details like position and size, which 
are continuesly updated.
The crop-options panel shows start and end coordinates. Please change that
to x/y and width/height ones. Additionally adding a 'keep aspect ratio' 
checkbox so users can type width=3D3 and height=3D2 to keep that aspect ratio 
from then on.

Overview palette:
The zoom slider can zoom to 1600%, which makes the slider really hard to 
navigate around the < 100 % zoom area. I suggest either making the slider 
logoritmic or changing the maximum.
Last; why is the space between the 'Zoom:' label and its slider soo much 
larger then the space betweenthe 'Exposure:' label and that slider ?

Color palettes ;
pressing the 'reset colors' icon directly under the foreground/background 
preview swatches does not change the background to white, as I would 
expect.
You can drag a color from the preview swatches but it is changing the 
selected one at click and since dropping drops on the selected one, the 
concept of duplicating the foreground to the background by dragging is 
impossible.  I suggest to do selecting of foreground/background color on 
mouse release instead.
=46or all the 'tracks' in the RGB and Gray palettes you can change the 
current position of the slider by clicking, but you can't keep updating 
it by dragging.  Please copy the behavior of any slider and continuesly 
update the value on click until the mouse is released again.  See QSlider 
behavior for how to handle mouse-drag events outside the widget 
boundaries.
The HSV/RGB/Gray have labels in front of the color-sliders. Please follow 
the styleguide and let all such labels end with a colon ":"


Color Picker tool:
The 'Normalize integer values' should not be enabled by default.  I would 
also like to suggest it converts the values to percentages instead of 
values between 0 and 1.
The label could then be renamed to something much less technical like 
'Colors in percentages'
The 'update current color' checkbox indeed updates the color (painting 
something works just fine) but the HSV/RGB/etc palettes are not altered, 
I expected them to be updated continuesly.

Autobrush selector (the one that pops up in its own window)
The toolbar button preview seems to set the maximum size for the button 
shown on the autobrush tab. As the button is much larger then the maximum 
size of the preview painted on it, I would suggest the preview be allowed 
to get bigger. Almost as big as the button.width() itself.
Using [tab] there seems to be no way to traverse focus between the 
different widgets on the panel (like the spinboxes). is that a bug that 
can be fixed?

Select:
reselect is enabled when I startup krita with a loaded jpeg; I never 
selected anything yet. Looks like a bug.

Color Range shows a dialog that also has extra margins around them, the 
groupbox on the right does not line up with the cancel right-side.
=46or the color range, I also fail to see what the dialog should do.
=46eature request; hide selection visualization (but leave the selection in=
 
place). Similar feature in Photoshop can be found under 'Ctrl-H'.
When you did a 'select all' and then create a selection nothing happens 
since you can't select more then you already did.  For that reason I 
suggest to make select all and deselect lead to a similar situation where 
adding a selection or substracting one will be smart and do make the 
result of that select or deselect visible.  In either case selecting a 
part in both a fully selected and fully deselected image should lead to 
the same result.


Thomas Zander


